{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Small;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0
\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl360\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0>If you\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92ve done the first three steps}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 , you should have a good idea of the large-scale structure of your novel. So now just keep growing the story.\~}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Take several hours}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \~and expand each sentence of your summary paragraph into a full paragraph. All but the last paragraph should end in a disaster. The final paragraph should tell how the book ends. Write this in present tense, like this: \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Jack sells his cow in town for some magic beans. When he comes home, his mother throws the beans out the window . . .\u8221\'94\~}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 This is a lot of fun}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 , and at the end of the exercise, you have a pretty decent one-page skeleton of your novel, which we\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92ll call a short synopsis. It\u8217\'92s okay if you can\u8217\'92t get it all onto one single-spaced page. What matters is that you are growing the ideas that will go into your story. You are expanding the conflict.\~}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Later, you can expand this}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \~into a synopsis suitable for a proposal, or you may find that this is all the synopsis you need. You can decide that question later.\~}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 If you\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92d like to see some examples}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \~of short synopses, look at the example Snowflakes included in\~}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Snowflake Pro}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . You can reach these from the\~}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 File}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \~menu which has a submenu named\~}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Open Examples}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . I have a thorough discussion on writing synopses in chapter 9 of my book\~}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Writing Fiction for Dummies}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 .}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}}