{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Small;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24  }{\f0\fs20\b0 Take another week and expand your character descriptions into full-fledged character charts detailing everything there is to know about each character. The standard stuff such as birthdate, description, history, motivation, goal, etc. Most importantly, how will this character change by the end of the novel? This is an expansion of your work in step (3), and it will teach you a lot about your characters. You will probably go back and revise steps (1-6) as your characters become \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93real\u8221\'94 to you and begin making petulant demands on the story. This is good \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  great fiction is character-driven. Take as much time as you need to do this, because you\u8217\'92re just saving time downstream. When you have finished this process, (and it may take a full month of solid effort to get here), you have most of what you need to write a proposal. If you are a published novelist, then you can write a proposal now and sell your novel before you write it. If you\u8217\'92re not yet published, then you\u8217\'92ll need to write your entire novel first before you can sell it. No, that\u8217\'92s not fair, but life isn\u8217\'92t fair and the world of fiction writing is especially unfair.}{ }}