{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Small;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0
\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl360\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0>(Optional. I don\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t do this step anymore.) Switch back to your word processor and begin writing a narrative description of the story. Take each line of the spreadsheet and expand it to a multi-paragraph description of the scene. Put in any cool lines of dialogue you think of, and sketch out the essential conflict of that scene. If there\u8217\'92s no conflict, you\u8217\'92ll know it here and you should either add conflict or scrub the scene.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 I used to write either one or two pages per chapter, and I started each chapter on a new page. Then I just printed it all out and put it in a loose-leaf notebook, so I could easily swap chapters around later or revise chapters without messing up the others. This process usually took me a week and the end result was a massive 50-page printed document that I would revise in red ink as I wrote the first draft. All my good ideas when I woke up in the morning got hand-written in the margins of this document. This, by the way, is a rather painless way of writing that dreaded detailed synopsis that all writers seem to hate. But it\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s actually fun to develop, if you have done steps (1) through (8) first. When I did this step, I never showed this synopsis to anyone, least of all to an editor \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  it was for me alone. I liked to think of it as the prototype first draft. Imagine writing a first draft in a week! Yes, you can do it and it\u8217\'92s well worth the time. But I\u8217\'92ll be honest, I don\u8217\'92t feel like I need this step anymore, so I don\u8217\'92t do it now.<!$Scr_Ps::0>}}